---
title: Finally!
categories: other
---

I was finally able to setup GitHub pages properly with this beautiful theme you are currently seeing.

Even though I've wanted to start blogging for several years, I ultimately set up this blog to document my process of creating a game for the Nintendo 64 from scratch. I've been alive enough years to know that I tend to forget things relatively easily, and I hope that blogging my whole adventure here will help my future self and others, because the members of this niche activity (programming games for the Nintendo 64) are usually using one of the few available libraries/tools for this task:

- libultra, Nintendo's official N64 library, which was used by most (all?) of the commercial games of that time
- [libdragon](https://github.com/DragonMinded/libdragon), a complete open-source SDK for the Nintendo 64
- [Pyrite64](https://github.com/HailToDodongo/pyrite64) (which internally uses libdragon), nothing less that a whole game engine for the Nintendo 64 

This means there is no real documentation for what I want to do (not when it comes to code, at least; there is the excellent [N64brew Wiki](https://n64brew.dev/) which explains a loooot of aspects of the console, but it is rough to understand certain points).

I like to understand how things work, so I decided to make my life even harder than it already is by writing a game from scratch. This means:

- producing a valid ROM by respecting the memory layout (this implies writing linker scripts)
- managing the CPU myself (mostly handling interruptions)
- talking to the hardware myself (the video interface, the "GPU", the audio interface, the joysticks, the game cartridge (to read/write saves), etc.)
- and more generally understanding, debugging and optimizing all this mess to satisfy the Nintendo 64's constraints: 8 MiB ROM, 4 MiB DRAM, a CPU cadenced @ ~100MHz, etc.

I'm working on a 2D game, so performance shouldn't be that much of an issue, but I might try to create a 3D game once this is finished; and it will certainly become an even messier mess.

I will end this first post by saying this: I will definitely talk about other things as well, including non-computer-science-related topics. Welcome aboard!

N.B: I, GuillaumeMZ, solemnly swear that I will never use any kind of LLM to write anything in this blog. It will always be me, my thoughts, and a slpellign cehckre.
